Let's bring it all together by streaming some data for
Redis and decoding that data from base64,
extract the JSON fields,
and then join the data from two separate Redis collections.
We have one collection called reservation and
one called payment and we're going to be working with both of those.
The first thing we want to do is make sure that Kafka is running.
We're going to go to the command line here and say ps -ef,
and sure enough, Kafka is not running.
Let's get that started,
and then we're going to start Spark.
I'm going to tail the Spark log from the master using tail -f and the path to the file.
There's the Spark master URI.
We're going to break out of the tail and I'm going to start the worker,
start and pass that in.
Kafka rest is up and let's check out everything, ps -ef.
You'll notice that we've asked you in the guide to start
the simulation once we are ready to run our code,
so we're going to do that in a minute here.
Now, I've got two JSON payloads,
so I need a schema for each of those.
We're going to do one for reservation using StructType and an array of StructFields.
The first field will be reservationId.
The next field will be customerName,
and then truckNumber, and reservationDate,
and that will be the last field for this schema.
Now, we're going to create one for the payment,
and we're going to call it reservationId for this one as well.
These are different schemas,
so it's okay if they use
the same field name more than once as long as those are in two separate schemas.
I've got all my fields there so far.
Excuse me, I need this one to be called just date,
and there is not a truckNumber here.
Then the last field is amount,
and that's a string,
which is not normally what it would be,
but that's what it is in this case.
You'll find lots of different ways of using JSON.
We've got schema defined for both of those.
I'm just double-checking the field names to make sure they match.
Now, I'm going to create a Spark session and we'll call it reservation-payment.
We'll set our logging to WARN,
RawStreamingDataFrame is going come from Spark and it's Kafka format.
This needs to have s on
the end bootstrap servers because you could provide more than one in this case.
We're reading from the redis-server topic and reading the earliest data,
and we're going to load that.
Let's convert it from binary to string,
and we're going to do a select expression of cast key as string and name it key.
Then we are going to cast the value as a string as well and call it value.
Now, we need to extract the base64 data out of the JSON payload.
Let's do that,.withColumn.
We want to get the value column.
We're extracting the JSON from that column using the redisMessageSchema,
and I'm going to select the column called value dot star,
and I'm going to create a view called RedisData.
I'm going to select the key and the zSetEntries zero element from that view.
Then I select the key,
and then I'm going to select zSetEntries 0.element.
If you look at this schema, you'll see zSetEntries,
it's a array type and it's an array of this type of
object that has an element and a score in it and I'm looking
at the element in that query.
We're going to call this a redisEvent and we're creating from the RedisData view.
Now, I want to decode it,
so I'm going to do that.
I'm actually going to do this twice this time
because I have two different things I'm looking for,
two different kinds of data.
I'm going to create this the first time and then I'm going to copy it.
Now, we're going to decode the redisEvent column which we created here from this element,
and we're going to decode it using
the unbase64 method calling it zSetEntriesEncodedStreamingDataFrame,
which will soon be decoded,
and we want the redisEvent column,
and we're going to cast it as a string.
Now, I want to copy this again,
and the second one is going to be DF2.
We're going to apply a filter and we're going to look into the JSON that's in
the redisEvent and we're going to look for the fields we're
looking for and filter out the things we don't want.
Let's filter the first data frame, DF1.
We're going to say zSetDecodedEntriesStreamingDF1.filter,
and we're going to say column redisEvent.contains reservationDate.
We just filter that,
and now we're going to filter the second data frame.
We're going to say column,
and we're actually going to say not.
So this is the not symbol in Spark.
We're saying not redisEvent.
.contains reservation Date.
This is everything else that doesn't have a reservationDate.
Now we're going to extract the JSON out of the first data frame using the.withColumn and
we're extracting data from the reservation column and we're going to use
the reservationJSONSchema and then we're going to select column
"reservation.star" and create a view called "Reservation".
Now we're going to create another view using the second data frame,
with column payment and from_json,
we should actually be looking for the redisEvent field.
I just made that update there,
and we're going to look for it again here.
Now we're using the paymentJSONSchema and I'm selecting "payment.star",
and I'm going to create a view called "Payment".
Now I'm going to select everything where the reservationDate is not null.
So reservationStreamingDF comes from that query, spark.sql,
"select reservationId, reservationDate from Reservation where
reservationDate is not null".
I'm going to do another query, paymentStreamingDF,
select reservationId, and we're going to call it paymentReservationId,
and the date we are going to call it paymentDate and the
amount as paymentAmount from Payment.
Now we're going to do a left outer join,
which allows us to see data when it actually missing from the right-hand of the join.
We're going to call it, noPaymentStreamingDF
because it could have data where there's no payment showing.
ReservationStreamingDF.join(paymentStreamingDF),
which is the right side which could be missing if there's no payment,
and then we're going to say reservationId equals paymentReservationId,
and we're going to call the type of a join explicitly here as a leftOuter join.
Then lastly, we're going to stream this to the console and see what we get from it.
NoPaymentStreamingDF.wrieStream.outputMode(''append'').format(''console").start()
and await Termination(). We'll save that file and start our simulation.
I'm just checking the startup for that,
so that should be running now and we can run to clear this
so it starts at the top home/workspace resting there.
Let's go to Spark and I have a script to
run this submit-reservation-payment.sh 940,
the sruct type is not defined,
looks like I spelled it wrong.
Struck type here has a lowercase t. It should have that t there, uppercase.
ZSetEntriesEncoded, we can see that we misspelled that there on line 83 Encoded,
and it's misspelled here as well,
on line 83 zSetEntriesEncodedStreamingDF, there we go.
Now, let's run that again.
From_json missing one argument schema on line 100.
There we're just going to print out of place.
Outer join between two streaming data frames is not supported with join
leftOuter without a watermark in the join keys or a watermark on the nullable side.
I'm just going to make a note of that and we will change this
then to payment instead of noPayment because it won't show up unless it has a payment.
I'm going to take out the leftOuter, save that.
When you're doing joins,
it can take up to two minutes for the output to come.
There's our information, so we have a paymentDate of null on every line.
Let's check out date,
so every reservation is looking correct, whether reservationId,
reservationDate, paymentReservationId,
and the Payment field is showing up as null even where the paymentAmount is there.
That's an error in the data that we're getting,
so that means it's not providing that.
The lines that were showing that say paymentAmount is null,
that means we just need to do is not null here and we would have a fix on that.
But the data that's coming in apparently isn't including the paymentDate,
we can look at that here if we go to
data/redis/redis-stable/source/redis-cli- and the password keys.
If I look at a payment,
zrange Payment 0-1, there is not actually a paymentDate.
To resolve that, we would just go in here and correct this.
We would just remove that date from that.
That's joining two base-64 encoded data frames decoded to
JSON and formatted so that they can be reused later in further analysis.
I'm going to kill that Spark application using control C,
and I'm going to exit from the redis-cli using exit.